MILD
If you have a mild mental illness with well-controlled symptoms, treatment from your primary care provider may be sufficient. However, often a team approach is appropriate to make sure all your psychiatric, medical and social needs are met.
In most cases, a mental illness won't get better if you try to treat it on your own without professional care. But you can do some things for yourself that will build on your treatment plan:

Stick to your treatment plan:
Don't skip therapy sessions. Even if you're feeling better, don't skip your medications. If you stop, symptoms may come back. And you could have withdrawal-like symptoms if you stop a medication too suddenly.

Avoid alcohol and drug use:
Using alcohol or recreational drugs can make it difficult to treat a mental illness. If you're addicted, quitting can be a real challenge. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a support group to help you.

Stay active:
Exercise can help you manage symptoms of depression, stress and anxiety. Physical activity can also counteract the effects of some psychiatric medications that may cause weight gain. Consider walking, swimming, gardening or any form of physical activity that you enjoy. Even light physical activity can make a difference.

Make healthy choices:
Maintaining a regular schedule that includes sufficient sleep, healthy eating and regular physical activity are important to your mental health.
Don't make important decisions when your symptoms are severe. Avoid decision-making when you're in the depth of mental illness symptoms, since you may not be thinking clearly.

Determine priorities.
You may reduce the impact of your mental illness by managing time and energy. Cut back on obligations when necessary and set reasonable goals. Give yourself permission to do less when symptoms are worse. You may find it helpful to make a list of daily tasks or use a planner to structure your time and stay organized.

Learn to adopt a positive attitude:
Focusing on the positive things in your life can make your life better and may even improve your health. Try to accept changes when they occur, and keep problems in perspective.


SEVERE
Severe mental illness occurs when you are experiencing the negative effects of mental health, everything in your day and day of life can be affected, day by day it acts like sleep and food to a more annoying demonstration of paralyzed vision, humorous emotional episodes, and meeting loved ones. Often, coping with severe mental illness reduces your ability to manage and adapt to health.


Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) – looks at how a person’s thinking, feelings, and behavior can be cut off from irrational examples. Man and woman work together to develop better ways of feeling and doing things. CBT often involves practice assignments outside of medical meetings. CBT may be useful in treating depression, anxiety disorders, and dementia such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia

Relational Psychotherapy (IPT) – analyzes what a person’s interactions and interactions can mean to their mind, habits, and feelings. A troubled connection can cause stress for a person with a mental illness and improving this communication can improve his or her satisfaction. This treatment may help treat depression.

Behavioral Therapy (DBT) – a treatment that is widely used for people living with a behavioral disorder (BPD), but can also help with other mental health issues. A serious problem in people living with BPD dominates emotions. This treatment helps people to better deal with their emotions and their responses.


MODERATE

Improving nutrition:
Pass up sugar-filled snacks, such as candy and soft drinks, which lead to ups and downs in energy levels.
Consume plenty of healthy fats, such as olive oil, coconut oil and avocado. This will support your brain function.
Have a healthy snack when hunger strikes, such as fruit, nuts, hard-boiled eggs, baked sweet potatoes or edamame. This will give you more energy than packaged products.
